hi I'm Diane cometa and today I'm
dishing with dye I'm making pasta fazool
pasta and bean soup this is an easy one
pot meal that's perfect for a weeknight
so let's get started you need some
canned cannellini beans some tomato
sauce some ditalini which is a small
tube pasta a dried bay leaf some fresh
garlic and some chicken broth or chicken
stock you're also going to need some
celery carrot and onion and I have some
fresh herbs here now I have some fresh
rosemary and fresh thyme and I actually
keep mine in the freezer after I
purchase it and I wrap it in some foil
and put it in a freezer safe bag so
whenever I need it I can just unwrap it
and take it out so that's what I did
today and another thing I have here is
some pancetta this is an Italian bacon
and it's diced really small if you don't
want to use this you don't have to you
can either substitute and use some
regular bacon that's that's a little bit
more fatty though or you can just leave
this out I've left it out plenty of
times and it still tastes really good so
don't worry about this part of it and I
have some salt pepper and olive oil now
what we're gonna do first is take the
celery carrot and onion and we're gonna
actually I'm gonna put mine in my mini
food processor here I'm gonna cut it up
really small so if you don't have one
just cut it up really fine
so I have to give it a rough chop first
before I put it in there almost forgot
you want to put the garlic in there as
well so if you're doing it by hand just
mince your garlic up really fine now I'm
going to go over the stove and we're
gonna get this whole thing started I
have a pot heating over medium heat and
I'm adding some olive oil in and now I'm
gonna add in my pancetta
and you just want this to cook for a few
minutes until the pancetta gets nice and
brown okay the pancetta it's nice and
brown now and you see all the little
brown bits on the bottom that's what you
want that's lots of flavor and the
pancetta gives it a really nice smoky
taste so now what we're gonna do is add
in the vegetables and the garlic so just
put that in there and we're gonna put
our herbs in there as well around their
arm the stems like that because we're
gonna take those out at the end so you
don't want to chop them up or anything
like that you just leave them in their
hole and then when we're all done we
just yank them right back out it steams
up a little bit at first there's a
carrot if again didn't get chopped up
get that out of there okay so this is
just gonna cook for a few minutes three
minutes until it gets a little soft and
it's nice and fragrant it's gonna add a
little bit of salt in there and some
fresh pepper you just season this to
taste and give that a little quick stir
around and this is something that I've
made plenty of times on a weeknight and
I come home from work and I just do it
really quick and boom it's done so now
we're ready for the next step and I'm
gonna add in the chicken broth and then
you're also gonna add in your sauce at
this point and the beans
now just give that a star and then we're
gonna raise the heat up to like
medium-high and you're gonna bring this
up to a boil and believe it or not we're
almost done okay it started to boil and
now I'm gonna add in the pasta and
you're just gonna let this cook for
about 10 minutes or until the pasta is
tender then we're ready to serve it up
that was literally about 30 minutes
altogether so what I like to do is I
have some nice fresh crusty Italian
bread here and I have some fresh
Parmesan cheese so I take my Parmesan
cheese and I just grate that on the top
and now it's time for a little taste
oh so hot but it's really good I promise
burnt my tongue I think the one thing I
want to tell you real quick is that when
you're cooking it make sure that you
scrape the bottom a little bit because
sometimes the beans will sit on the
bottom when you're boiling the pasta and
you want to make sure that they don't
stick down there so just get your
spatula or your spoon and just scrape
that up real good but really delicious
rich and perfect for a weeknight but you
can certainly have this any time you
want it's a wonderful comfort food and
you could use low-sodium chicken broth
they have now white pasta that has extra
fiber in it or you could use a whole
wheat pasta so there's lots of different
like healthy options for you here the
recipe is on my website dish and with
DICOM and don't forget to subscribe I'd
love to have you I hope I made your life
a little easier more enjoyable